AAP-21776 Convert HA Redis conceptual content (#1801)
ansible/aap-docs: downstream/modules/platform/con-gw-clustered-redis.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

[id="gw-single-node-redis_{context}"]

= Clustered Redis

With clustered Redis, data is automatically partitioned over multiple nodes to provide performance stability and nodes are assigned as replicas to provide reliability. Clustered Redis deployment is supported in containerized and operator-based installations.

[NOTE]
====
Clustered Redis is currently not available for rpm deployments. 
====

A cluster contains three primary nodes and each primary node contains a replica node.

If a primary instance becomes unavailable due to failures, the other primary nodes will initiate a failover state to promote a replica node to a primary node.

image::gw-clustered-redis.png[Single-node Redis deployment]

The benefits of deploying clustered Redis over single-node Redis include the following:
* Data is automatically split across multiple nodes.
* Data can be dynamically adjusted.
* Automatic failover of the primary nodes is initiated during system failures.

> Therefore, if you need data scalability and automatic failover, deploy Ansible Automation Platform with a clustered Redis. For more information about scalability with Redis, refer to link:https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/oss_and_stack/management/scaling/[Scale with Redis Cluster] in the Redis product documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, if you need data scalability and automatic failover, deploy {PlatformNameShort} with a clustered Redis. For more information about scalability with Redis, refer to link:https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/oss_and_stack/management/scaling/[Scale with Redis Cluster] in the Redis product documentation.
```

> For information on deploying Ansible Automation Platform with clustered Redis, refer to the link:{BaseURL}/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{PlatformVers}/html/containerized_installation[{TitleContainerizedInstall}] guide or the link:{BaseURL}/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{PlatformVers}/html/installing_on_openshift_container_platform[{TitleOperatorInstallation}] guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information on deploying {PlatformNameShort} with clustered Redis, refer to the link:{BaseURL}/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{PlatformVers}/html/containerized_installation[{TitleContainerizedInstall}] guide or the link:{BaseURL}/red_hat_ansible_automation_platform/{PlatformVers}/html/installing_on_openshift_container_platform[{TitleOperatorInstallation}] guide.
```
